---
date: 2024-08-20
class: CSE2321
aliases:
---
# Topics:
- [[Propositional Logic]]

The Sorting Problem:
	Given as input a sequence of numbers and we want to order them in increasing order

Input: 8, 1, 4, 3, 2 -> 1, 2, 3, 4, 8

A **good algorithm** is *efficient* (fast, memory-efficient) and *correct* 

# propositional logic
- Branch of mathematical logic that studies propositions (very old, Aristotle times, modern by Boole)
- Proposition = a declarative statement or sentence with a truth value (either true or false, not both, not neither)
	- "2+2=4" is a proposition (True).
	- "$\sqrt{ 2 }$" is not a proposition. "It is the case that $\sqrt{ 2 }$ ... doesn't make sense"
	- "16 is a prime number" is a proposition (False).
	- "$x^2\geq 0$" is NOT a proposition.
	- "for every real number $x$, $x^2\geq 0$" IS a proposition
	- "He is tall" is NOT a proposition. Very general, who is he, what classifies as tall?
	- "There are infinitely many pairs of primes that are two apart (twin prime conjecture)" is a proposition but we don't know if it is true and false.
		- Prime is a number only divisible by 1 and nothing else.
	- "Is 16 a prime" is NOT proposition, its asking a question.
- Negation = The negation($\neg$) of a proposition $p$ is denoted $\neg{p}$, and states that "$p$ is not true" or "It is not the case that $p$."
- Conjunction (AND), $\wedge$ = For two propositions, $p$ and $q$, states that "Both $p$ and $q$ are true"
- Disjunction (OR), $\vee$: $p \vee q$ which states "$p$ or $q$"
	- 2+2=3 (F) $\vee$ 1+1 = 2 (T) = T
- ExclusiveOr
- Implication/Conditional/If, then ($\to or \implies$): Given proposition $p\to q$ states that "If $p$ is true, then $q$ is true" "If $p$, then $q$"
	- A false statement implies True is True
		- If 2+1=2, then 2+2=4 is True
	- If 2+2=4 then 2+1 = 2 is FALSE
	- $T\implies T$ is True
	- $F\implies F$ is True
	- $T\implies F$ is False
	- $T\implies T$ is True

#toprocess 